README.md, before:

# AES-11-2009 Hardware-Agnostic Implementation

A hardware-agnostic, platform-independent implementation of the **AES-11-2009 Digital Audio Reference Signal (DARS)** standard, enabling audio equipment manufacturers and developers to integrate standards-compliant digital audio synchronization with minimal complexity.

## 🎯 Purpose

This project delivers:
- **100% AES-11-2009 compliant** DARS implementation
- **Platform-independent** design (no vendor or OS-specific code)
- **Real-time safe** for professional audio applications
- **Certification-ready** with complete conformance test suite
- **Hardware Abstraction Layer** enabling any platform support
- **Standards-driven development** following IEEE/ISO/IEC lifecycle
- **XP practices** integration (TDD, Continuous Integration)

## 📚 Standards Implemented

| Standard | Purpose | Coverage |
|----------|---------|----------|
| **ISO/IEC/IEEE 12207:2017** | Software life cycle processes | Complete lifecycle framework |
| **ISO/IEC/IEEE 29148:2018** | Requirements engineering | Requirements elicitation, analysis, specification |
| **IEEE 1016-2009** | Software design descriptions | Architecture and detailed design |
| **ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010:2011** | Architecture description | Architecture views, viewpoints, concerns |
| **IEEE 1012-2016** | Verification & validation | V&V planning, testing, reviews |

## 🚀 XP Practices Integrated

- **Test-Driven Development (TDD)** - Write tests first
- **Continuous Integration** - Integrate frequently
- **Pair Programming** - Collaborative development
- **Simple Design** - YAGNI principle
- **Refactoring** - Continuous improvement
- **Collective Code Ownership** - Shared responsibility
- **User Stories** - Effective use cases

## 📁 Repository Structure

```
copilot-instructions-template/
├── .github/
│   ├── copilot-instructions.md          # Root Copilot instructions
│   ├── workflows/                        # CI/CD automation
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/                   # Issue templates
│
├── 01-stakeholder-requirements/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md   # Phase-specific instructions
│   ├── stakeholders/                     # Stakeholder analysis
│   ├── business-context/                 # Business needs
│   └── templates/                        # Requirements templates
│
├── 02-requirements/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── functional/                       # Functional requirements
│   ├── non-functional/                   # Quality attributes
│   ├── use-cases/                        # Use case specifications
│   └── user-stories/                     # XP user stories
│
├── 03-architecture/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── decisions/                        # ADRs (Architecture Decision Records)
│   ├── views/                            # IEEE 42010 architecture views
│   ├── diagrams/                         # C4, UML diagrams
│   └── constraints/                      # Technical constraints
│
├── 04-design/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── components/                       # Component designs
│   ├── interfaces/                       # API specifications
│   ├── data-models/                      # Data structures
│   └── patterns/                         # Design patterns used
│
├── 05-implementation/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── src/                              # Source code
│   ├── tests/                            # Test-first XP tests
│   └── docs/                             # Code documentation
│
├── 06-integration/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── integration-tests/                # Integration test suites
│   ├── ci-config/                        # CI/CD configurations
│   └── deployment/                       # Deployment scripts
│
├── 07-verification-validation/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── test-plans/                       # IEEE 1012 test plans
│   ├── test-cases/                       # Detailed test cases
│   ├── test-results/                     # Test execution results
│   └── traceability/                     # Requirements traceability
│
├── 08-transition/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── deployment-plans/                 # Deployment strategies
│   ├── user-documentation/               # End-user guides
│   └── training-materials/               # Training resources
│
├── 09-operation-maintenance/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── monitoring/                       # Operations monitoring
│   ├── incident-response/                # Incident management
│   └── maintenance-logs/                 # Change logs
│
├── spec-kit-templates/
│   ├── requirements-spec.md              # IEEE 29148 templates
│   ├── design-spec.md                    # IEEE 1016 templates
│   ├── architecture-spec.md              # IEEE 42010 templates
│   ├── test-spec.md                      # IEEE 1012 templates
│   └── user-story-template.md            # XP user story template
│
├── standards-compliance/
│   ├── checklists/                       # Phase-specific checklists
│   ├── reviews/                          # Review reports
│   └── metrics/                          # Quality metrics
│
└── docs/
    ├── lifecycle-guide.md                # Complete lifecycle guide
    ├── xp-practices.md                   # XP implementation guide
    ├── copilot-usage.md                  # How to use Copilot instructions
    └── standards-reference.md            # Standards quick reference
```

## 🎓 How to Use This Template

### 1. Create New Project from Template

```bash
# Create repository from this template on GitHub
# OR clone and customize
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_ORG/copilot-instructions-template.git my-new-project
cd my-new-project
```

### 2. Initialize Your Project

```bash
# Update project-specific information
# Edit .github/copilot-instructions.md with your project details
# Customize templates in spec-kit-templates/
```

### 3. Follow the Lifecycle Phases

Start with **Phase 01** and progress through each phase:

1. **Stakeholder Requirements** - Understand business needs
2. **Requirements** - Define what to build (IEEE 29148)
3. **Architecture** - Design system structure (IEEE 42010)
4. **Design** - Detail component design (IEEE 1016)
5. **Implementation** - Code with TDD (XP practices)
6. **Integration** - Continuous integration (XP)
7. **Verification & Validation** - Test thoroughly (IEEE 1012)
8. **Transition** - Deploy to production
9. **Operation & Maintenance** - Monitor and improve

### 4. Use Copilot with Phase Instructions

GitHub Copilot will automatically load phase-specific instructions based on the folder you're working in:

- Navigate to a phase folder (e.g., `02-requirements/`)
- Copilot reads `.github/copilot-instructions.md` in that folder
- Get context-aware suggestions aligned with standards

### 5. Leverage Spec-Kit Templates

Use markdown specifications for AI-assisted development:

```bash
# Copy template for your feature
cp spec-kit-templates/requirements-spec.md 02-requirements/functional/feature-xyz.md

# Fill in the specification
# Use GitHub Copilot to generate code from spec
```

## 🤖 Copilot Instructions Features

### ApplyTo Patterns

Copilot instructions use `applyTo:` patterns to target specific file types:

```yaml
applyTo:
  - "02-requirements/**/*.md"
  - "02-requirements/**/use-cases/*.md"
  - "02-requirements/**/user-stories/*.md"
```

### Standards Enforcement

Each phase enforces relevant standards:

```markdown
## Standards Compliance
- IEEE 29148:2018 - Requirements specification format
- Traceability matrix required
- Review checklist completion mandatory
```

### XP Practices Integration

```markdown
## XP Practices
- Write user stories in Given-When-Then format
- Maintain story point estimates
- Track velocity
```

## 🔍 Quality Assurance

### Automated Checks

- **Standards compliance** checking via GitHub Actions
- **Requirements traceability** validation
- **Test coverage** enforcement (XP: >80%)
- **Documentation completeness** checks

### Review Gates

Each phase includes:
- ✅ Entry criteria checklist
- ✅ Phase activities checklist
- ✅ Exit criteria validation
- ✅ Standards compliance review

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Lifecycle Guide](docs/lifecycle-guide.md)** - Complete walkthrough of all phases
- **[XP Practices Guide](docs/xp-practices.md)** - How to apply XP techniques
- **[Copilot Usage Guide](docs/copilot-usage.md)** - Maximizing Copilot effectiveness
- **[Standards Reference](docs/standards-reference.md)** - Quick reference to all standards

## 🛠️ Customization

### Adding Custom Phases

1. Create folder: `XX-custom-phase/`
2. Add `.github/copilot-instructions.md`
3. Define applyTo patterns
4. Update root copilot-instructions.md

### Extending Templates

1. Add templates to `spec-kit-templates/`
2. Follow Spec-Kit markdown format
3. Include standards references
4. Add examples

## 🤝 Contributing

This template is designed to be:
- **Forked** for your organization
- **Customized** to your processes
- **Extended** with your practices
- **Shared** with your teams

## 📄 License

[Specify your license here]

## 🔗 References

- [GitHub Spec-Kit](https://github.com/github/spec-kit)
- [Spec-Driven Development Blog Post](https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/generative-ai/spec-driven-development-using-markdown-as-a-programming-language-when-building-with-ai/)
- [ISO/IEC/IEEE Standards](https://www.iso.org)
- [Extreme Programming Explained (Kent Beck)](http://www.extremeprogramming.org/)

---

**Ready to build standards-compliant software with AI assistance? Start with Phase 01! 🚀**

Commit message:

Add C++ coverage generation and badge creation: implement gcovr integration in CI for coverage reports, create scripts for coverage badge generation, and enforce coverage threshold in CI workflow.

README.md, after:

# AES-11-2009 Hardware-Agnostic Implementation

![Coverage](docs/badges/coverage.svg)

A hardware-agnostic, platform-independent implementation of the **AES-11-2009 Digital Audio Reference Signal (DARS)** standard, enabling audio equipment manufacturers and developers to integrate standards-compliant digital audio synchronization with minimal complexity.


## 🎯 Purpose

This project delivers:

- **100% AES-11-2009 compliant** DARS implementation
- **Platform-independent** design (no vendor or OS-specific code)
- **Real-time safe** for professional audio applications
- **Certification-ready** with complete conformance test suite
- **Hardware Abstraction Layer** enabling any platform support
- **Standards-driven development** following IEEE/ISO/IEC lifecycle
- **XP practices** integration (TDD, Continuous Integration)

## 📚 Standards Implemented

| Standard | Purpose | Coverage |
|----------|---------|----------|
| **ISO/IEC/IEEE 12207:2017** | Software life cycle processes | Complete lifecycle framework |
| **ISO/IEC/IEEE 29148:2018** | Requirements engineering | Requirements elicitation, analysis, specification |
| **IEEE 1016-2009** | Software design descriptions | Architecture and detailed design |
| **ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010:2011** | Architecture description | Architecture views, viewpoints, concerns |
| **IEEE 1012-2016** | Verification & validation | V&V planning, testing, reviews |

## 🚀 XP Practices Integrated

- **Test-Driven Development (TDD)** - Write tests first
- **Continuous Integration** - Integrate frequently
- **Pair Programming** - Collaborative development
- **Simple Design** - YAGNI principle
- **Refactoring** - Continuous improvement
- **Collective Code Ownership** - Shared responsibility
- **User Stories** - Effective use cases

## 📁 Repository Structure

```text
copilot-instructions-template/
├── .github/
│   ├── copilot-instructions.md          # Root Copilot instructions
│   ├── workflows/                        # CI/CD automation
│   └── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/                   # Issue templates
│
├── 01-stakeholder-requirements/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md   # Phase-specific instructions
│   ├── stakeholders/                     # Stakeholder analysis
│   ├── business-context/                 # Business needs
│   └── templates/                        # Requirements templates
│
├── 02-requirements/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── functional/                       # Functional requirements
│   ├── non-functional/                   # Quality attributes
│   ├── use-cases/                        # Use case specifications
│   └── user-stories/                     # XP user stories
│
├── 03-architecture/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── decisions/                        # ADRs (Architecture Decision Records)
│   ├── views/                            # IEEE 42010 architecture views
│   ├── diagrams/                         # C4, UML diagrams
│   └── constraints/                      # Technical constraints
│
├── 04-design/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── components/                       # Component designs
│   ├── interfaces/                       # API specifications
│   ├── data-models/                      # Data structures
│   └── patterns/                         # Design patterns used
│
├── 05-implementation/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── src/                              # Source code
│   ├── tests/                            # Test-first XP tests
│   └── docs/                             # Code documentation
│
├── 06-integration/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── integration-tests/                # Integration test suites
│   ├── ci-config/                        # CI/CD configurations
│   └── deployment/                       # Deployment scripts
│
├── 07-verification-validation/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── test-plans/                       # IEEE 1012 test plans
│   ├── test-cases/                       # Detailed test cases
│   ├── test-results/                     # Test execution results
│   └── traceability/                     # Requirements traceability
│
├── 08-transition/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── deployment-plans/                 # Deployment strategies
│   ├── user-documentation/               # End-user guides
│   └── training-materials/               # Training resources
│
├── 09-operation-maintenance/
│   ├── .github/copilot-instructions.md
│   ├── monitoring/                       # Operations monitoring
│   ├── incident-response/                # Incident management
│   └── maintenance-logs/                 # Change logs
│
├── spec-kit-templates/
│   ├── requirements-spec.md              # IEEE 29148 templates
│   ├── design-spec.md                    # IEEE 1016 templates
│   ├── architecture-spec.md              # IEEE 42010 templates
│   ├── test-spec.md                      # IEEE 1012 templates
│   └── user-story-template.md            # XP user story template
│
├── standards-compliance/
│   ├── checklists/                       # Phase-specific checklists
│   ├── reviews/                          # Review reports
│   └── metrics/                          # Quality metrics
│
└── docs/
    ├── lifecycle-guide.md                # Complete lifecycle guide
    ├── xp-practices.md                   # XP implementation guide
    ├── copilot-usage.md                  # How to use Copilot instructions
    └── standards-reference.md            # Standards quick reference
```

## 🎓 How to Use This Template

### 1. Create New Project from Template

```bash
# Create repository from this template on GitHub
# OR clone and customize
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_ORG/copilot-instructions-template.git my-new-project
cd my-new-project
```

### 2. Initialize Your Project

```bash
# Update project-specific information
# Edit .github/copilot-instructions.md with your project details
# Customize templates in spec-kit-templates/
```

### 3. Follow the Lifecycle Phases

Start with **Phase 01** and progress through each phase:

1. **Stakeholder Requirements** - Understand business needs
2. **Requirements** - Define what to build (IEEE 29148)
3. **Architecture** - Design system structure (IEEE 42010)
4. **Design** - Detail component design (IEEE 1016)
5. **Implementation** - Code with TDD (XP practices)
6. **Integration** - Continuous integration (XP)
7. **Verification & Validation** - Test thoroughly (IEEE 1012)
8. **Transition** - Deploy to production
9. **Operation & Maintenance** - Monitor and improve

### 4. Use Copilot with Phase Instructions

GitHub Copilot will automatically load phase-specific instructions based on the folder you're working in:

- Navigate to a phase folder (e.g., `02-requirements/`)
- Copilot reads `.github/copilot-instructions.md` in that folder
- Get context-aware suggestions aligned with standards

### 5. Leverage Spec-Kit Templates

Use markdown specifications for AI-assisted development:

```bash
# Copy template for your feature
cp spec-kit-templates/requirements-spec.md 02-requirements/functional/feature-xyz.md

# Fill in the specification
# Use GitHub Copilot to generate code from spec
```

## 🤖 Copilot Instructions Features

### ApplyTo Patterns

Copilot instructions use `applyTo:` patterns to target specific file types:

```yaml
applyTo:
  - "02-requirements/**/*.md"
  - "02-requirements/**/use-cases/*.md"
  - "02-requirements/**/user-stories/*.md"
```

### Standards Enforcement

Each phase enforces relevant standards:

```markdown
## Standards Compliance
- IEEE 29148:2018 - Requirements specification format
- Traceability matrix required
- Review checklist completion mandatory
```

### XP Practices Integration

```markdown
## XP Practices
- Write user stories in Given-When-Then format
- Maintain story point estimates
- Track velocity
```

## 🔍 Quality Assurance

### Automated Checks

- **Standards compliance** checking via GitHub Actions
- **Requirements traceability** validation
- **Test coverage** enforcement (XP: >80% lines)
- **Documentation completeness** checks

### Review Gates

Each phase includes:

- ✅ Entry criteria checklist
- ✅ Phase activities checklist
- ✅ Exit criteria validation
- ✅ Standards compliance review

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Lifecycle Guide](docs/lifecycle-guide.md)** - Complete walkthrough of all phases
- **[XP Practices Guide](docs/xp-practices.md)** - How to apply XP techniques
- **[Copilot Usage Guide](docs/copilot-usage.md)** - Maximizing Copilot effectiveness
- **[Standards Reference](docs/standards-reference.md)** - Quick reference to all standards

## 🛠️ Customization

### Adding Custom Phases

1. Create folder: `XX-custom-phase/`
2. Add `.github/copilot-instructions.md`
3. Define applyTo patterns
4. Update root copilot-instructions.md

### Extending Templates

1. Add templates to `spec-kit-templates/`
2. Follow Spec-Kit markdown format
3. Include standards references
4. Add examples

## 🤝 Contributing

This template is designed to be:

- **Forked** for your organization
- **Customized** to your processes
- **Extended** with your practices
- **Shared** with your teams

## 📄 License

[Specify your license here]

## 🔗 References

- [GitHub Spec-Kit](https://github.com/github/spec-kit)
- [Spec-Driven Development Blog Post](https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/generative-ai/spec-driven-development-using-markdown-as-a-programming-language-when-building-with-ai/)
- [ISO/IEC/IEEE Standards](https://www.iso.org)
- [Extreme Programming Explained (Kent Beck)](http://www.extremeprogramming.org/)

---

## Get Started

Ready to build standards-compliant software with AI assistance? Start with Phase 01! 🚀

## Notes on Coverage

- We enforce line coverage ≥ 80% for C++ builds in CI. A generated badge is published at `docs/badges/coverage.svg` on the default branch after successful runs.
- Branch/decision coverage is not enforced at this time due to cross-platform toolchain variance; we may introduce branch coverage gates in Phase 06 once the toolchain is stabilized.
